---
title: "Human Activity and Location Sensing"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "Shenzhen University, College of Electronics and Information Engineering"
date: 2025-01-061
location: "Shenzhen, China"
---

With the rapid proliferation of the Internet of Things (IoT) and smart devices, human activity and location sensing technologies have become increasingly essential across various fields, including human-computer interaction, smart cities, health monitoring, and security systems. However, current approaches face significant challenges: WiFi-based localization is highly dependent on the distribution of Access Points (APs), while Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU)-based methods often suffer from cumulative errors and drift over time. To address these issues, advanced encoding techniques and activity-based methods have been employed to ensure reliable localization performance. First, a Siamese Network is utilized to encode WiFi signals, allowing the system to maintain accurate localization even when certain APs are removed or relocated over time. Second, IMU-based human activity recognition technology is leveraged to identify human activities without raising privacy concerns. These recognized activities are then linked to specific landmarks, which can be used to optimize localization accuracy. Additionally, the application of Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) is explored, highlighting their potential for energy-efficient and biologically inspired processing in dynamic and resource-constrained environments. Finally, we conclude by discussing future opportunities and unresolved challenges in the field, such as improving robustness, achieving greater scalability, and integrating multi-modal sensing techniques to further enhance system performance.
